In this video I'm going to focus on adding details to my ears.
I started off by just scribbling in some grease pencil just to kind of get a feel for from my reference
image over here.
What do I need to have the lines.
What's missing.
How do I need to push and pull it.
Just getting myself prepared I need to drag it further backwards.
Add these little things and poke a hole in the side of my head to make these e hole so I can hear through.
As always I have a challenge for you which is to sculpt your ears much add details on the ears until
you are happy with them.
That's your challenge.
Do that with me at the same time or watch along and then do that afterwards.
I'm gonna be going a little bit quicker in this video because we've done a lot of chat about sculpting
in details already so I'll only pause and take you through things that I think are more noteworthy otherwise
I'll power through a little bit more quickly and probably speed up the video so you can see what I'm
doing but not necessarily have to listen to me making bad dad jokes the whole way through.
So first thing I need to do I think is with my grab or my snake hook is to pull the ear backwards backwards
backwards so that I do have a little bit of distancing from the actual head of my unit in there.
Pull that back and then add a little bit of the geometry on the inside.
I'm gonna do that police grab tool as well just to get all this out of the way so it's okay to have
a big blob like that because I'm going to dig into it a little bit.
I actually want to have more of a blob over here so I'm going to add a little bit of clay.
Haven't done that technique a lot so I'm just a little bit of clay just to build it up it's similar
to draw but I find it makes a little more chunky a little bit more clay like for Sean.
Actually my brush is not too big.
Get this going that's a valid way actually to enjoy it.
You might blow up a book draw around the outside of it with a clay brush and take it from there.
That's a perfectly good way instead of doing the snake hook that we did in this process.
Putting that in a bit okay.
Now my grease pencil is getting in the way.
Thank you grease pencil.
Kind of looks like a college wrestler now.
That's fine.
Well apologies if you're a college wrestler and you take offense to that but you guys know who you are.
Can I maybe an MMO a star or someone from the UFC.
Let's get detail in here okay.
We figured it out a little bit.
We've got our Cauliflower is lovely.
I'm gonna get my draw tool.
I think this is probably gonna be a good one to use heat control and just dig in to dig into dig into
Okay so you can see here this is me just shaping it up trying to get the shape zoom in and out every
now and again make sure I can see what's going on.
Trying to get the shape I'll start to pinch and crease very shortly.
Find it Good to dig from the underside here so you can see where you're going with this whole process.
Dig dig dig dig.
A lot of modelling is a lot easier when you've got a stylus and a tablet.
I'm deliberately using my mouse because I'm guessing a lot of people watching this video at the moment
are also using a mouse.
I do want to be cruising around like some sort of ninja with a stylus and have bills say how on earth
did you do that with different pressure.
Long using a stylus I'll speed up the video a little bit here just using the crease tool behind the
ease to make a little bit of a reach every now and again I'm going to use the grab tool maybe a snake
hook tool just to bring things back into the right shape as I want.
It's all looking a little bit Frankenstein at the moment not a Frankenstein Caterpillar just yet but
not so good.
You know it will do His will punch a hole in the side of the head so we've been through that process.
I'm going to use the draw tool get it nice and close may make it to a little bit smaller and then just
draw dirt road raw hitting control at the same time so that we're heading on into the head.
Draw draw draw draw and increase the power a little bit.
Draw you don't need to make a huge holiday in your e and probably stick your finger in your ear quite
a long way.
But from the point of modelling I want it to go too far.
That's totally in the wrong spot so it's hit G make our brush bigger and there's that whole geometry
over in a little bit like better.
It's looking pretty hideous around the front.
That's cool we'll tidy that up in a moment.
Do some pinching and then do a bit of pushing.
Just a reminder of what I've got my settings on.
I have dined top out on 40 at the moment might be a little bit too much.
Just dropped to 35.
We don't need massive geometry on the ears but enough that we're not making a mess member to smooth
from time to time I find that makes things look a little bit nicer a bit more realistic.
Just drawing and smoothing drawing and smoothing cutting down control to get some more small digging
of cabins into the is spreading out the video now and just going to put a bit more detail in the outer
area of the air.
Just dig away at that hole a little bit and make it all a bit crisper.
We'll pop it back up to 40 with my resolution.
Take note as well where the jaw line and the E interact so for me the jaw goes out.
This very kind of faces but Bubba.
And then the jaw line is kind of connecting with the back of the ear.
So I want to have this area in here a little bit less pronounced a little bit more recessed into the
into the head.
I think just to make sure I don't get myself in trouble later on when I come to do the jaw and then
I'll put a little bit of maybe put down some clay just along where I want the jaw to be just I've sorted
out a little bit speeding up the video just laying down some clay that allows us to smooth up at the
top and then just to chisel out a little bit more with the crease tool down below in the jaw line.
Okay got a little calligraphy indent in my head just here let's go and address the indent.
Mostly just using my smooth tool
okay.
So it's important to do the jaw as we're doing the ear.
I think that's coming along pretty good might be a little bit strong at the front here so I'm just going
by smooth too and just making sure I haven't overdone those clay strips I put in before zoom out a bit
of a reality check character from the side.
Okay I'm gonna leave it a tiny bit more pronounced along the jaw line for when I come to do the neck.
Then we can tidy all that up but that's okay.
Now for the jaw ee relationship spit out the video again I'm just gonna get the inside part of my ear
a little bit tidied up.
Just get the shape smooth it around little bit just nudge and push as you do.
It's good to do these fine movements I'd like to stop every now and again and have a look at the proportions
of what I'm working on that's the important thing.
That's what people notice when they look at something as if something doesn't quite seem right.
So if you have a look at the size of my ear I'll make it nice and large so they're side by side.
You can see that the from the top to the bottom if that's representing one whole unit of an ear we can
do the same for no nose or chin or anything else that we're modelling it's good to do it this way when
you're making reference.
Is this line.
Does he know he represents somewhat of a middle point.
And it looks like it's pretty much in the middle of the bottom of my ear lobe to the top of the ear.
So then we have a look at our model.
That's the top of the EEA.
That's roughly in the middle so it's not too bad I could probably drag the elbow down just a little
bit and we do need to flatten it out it's still protruding a bit more than I'd like it to but not too
bad.
And then let's have a look at the size the hole it represents roughly about half of that space from
this midpoint to the bottom.
And yeah I think it's representing roughly half could probably dig it out a little bit more it doesn't
look like it's going into the black abyss as much as it could but we'll work on that in a moment and
then if we have a look at the swell it's looking like it's roughly in the middle of this part of the
ear as well.
So I've not done a good job of looping this part just here.
I'll make my brush smaller so I can highlight it a bit better.
This part just here going underneath that part just there.
So when you look at this in proportions you also find some of these little things that aren't quite
lining up very well sung.
I'm going to do those final two things I'm going to just get a little bit more space in the ear hole
and tidy that up and then I'm also going to tidy up this ridge that goes under the ears I'll speed up
the video while I'm doing that I'll speed out the video here because I do just kind of fiddle around
with the ear a little bit I'm adding a little bit more geometry so it's a little bit thicker.
And then having a few goes at it actually my goal here is to build up the outside while also going on
the inside having it look like it's wrapping underneath that outer area dig a little bit of the e hole
a little bit more push things around and just doing some smoothing from time to time by holding down
shift on whichever tool I'm on and then just nudging around pulling back to make sure that I've got
the sizing right.
Just need to nudge things a little bit and using the grab tool just to get my ear positioned in a way
that I like it.
And then final thing to do is just kind of smooth around the edge a little bit unlike the eyes the ears
tend not shut wrinkles and all the signs of aging and the amount of children you have.
So we'll make sure there's not too many bumpy bits on that.
Okay.
I'm tempted to count as time this for hours but we really shouldn't.
It matches the level of detail of the eyes I'm pretty happy with how it looks it's reasonably representative
so I'm going to move on.
So hopefully you've done well with the ear and I'll see you in the next lecture.